abate (verb) to lessen in intensity or degree
accolade (noun) an expression of praise
adulation (noun) excessive praise; intense adoration
aesthetic (adj.) dealing with, appreciative of, or responsive to art or the beautiful
ameliorate (verb) to make better or more tolerable
ascetic (noun) one who practices rigid self-denial, especially as an act of religious devotion
avarice (noun) greed, especially for wealth (adj. form: avaricious)
burgeon (verb) to grow rapidly or flourish
bucolic (adj.) rustic and pastoral; characteristic of rural areas and their inhabitants
cacophony (noun) harsh, jarring, discordant sound; dissonance (adj. form: cacophonous)
canon (noun) an established set of principles or code of laws, often religious in nature (adj. form: canonical)
castigation (noun) severe criticism or punishment (verb form: castigate)
catalyst (noun) a substance that accelerates the rate of a chemical reaction without itself changing; a person or thing that causes change
caustic (adj.) burning or stinging; causing corrosion 
chary (adj.) wary; cautious; sparing
cogent (adj.) appealing forcibly to the mind or reason; convincing
complaisance (noun) the willingness to comply with the wishes of
others (adj. form: complaisant)
contentious (adj.) argumentative; quarrelsome; causing controversy or disagreement
contrite (adj.) regretful; penitent; seeking forgiveness (noun form: contrition)
culpable (adj.) deserving blame (noun form: culpability)
dearth (noun) smallness of quantity or number; scarcity; a lack
demur (verb) to question or oppose
didactic (adj.) intended to teach or instruct
discretion (noun) cautious reserve in speech; ability to make responsible decisions (adj. form: discreet)
disinterested (adj.) free of bias or self-interest; impartial
dogmatic (adj.) expressing a rigid opinion based on unproved or improvable principles (noun form: dogma)
ebullience (noun) the quality of lively or enthusiastic expression of thoughts and feelings (adj. form: ebullient)
eclectic (adj.) composed of elements drawn from various sources
elegy (noun) a mournful poem, especially one lamenting the dead (adj. form: elegiac)
emollient (adj.) (noun) soothing, especially to the skin; making less harsh; mollifying; an agent that softens or smoothes the skin
empirical (adj.) based on observation or experiment
enigmatic (adj.) mysterious; obscure; difficult to understand (noun form: enigma)
ephemeral (adj.) brief; fleeting
esoteric (adj.) intended for or understood by a small, specific group
eulogy (noun) a speech honoring the dead (verb form: eulogize)
exonerate (verb) to remove blame 
facetious (adj.) playful; humorous
fallacy (noun) an invalid or incorrect notion; a mistaken belief (adj. form: fallacious)
furtive (adj.) marked by stealth; covert; surreptitious
gregarious (adj.) sociable; outgoing; enjoying the company of other people
harangue (verb)/(noun) to deliver a forceful or angry speech; ranting speech or writing.
heretical (adj.) violating accepted dogma or convention (noun form: heresy)
hyperbole (noun) an exaggerated statement, often used as a figure of
speech (adj. form: hyperbolic)
impecunious (adj.) lacking funds; without money
incipient (adj.) beginning to come into being or to become apparent
inert (adj.) unmoving; lethargic; sluggish
innocuous (adj.) harmless; causing no damage
intransigent (adj.) refusing to compromise (noun form: intransigence)
inveigle (verb) to obtain by deception or flattery
morose (adj.) sad; sullen; melancholy
odious (adj.) evoking intense aversion or dislike
opaque (adj.) impenetrable by light; not reflecting light
oscillation (noun) the act or state of swinging back and forth with a steady, uninterrupted rhythm (verb form: oscillate)
penurious (adj.) penny-pinching; excessively thrifty; ungenerous
pernicious (adj.) extremely harmful in a way that is not easily seen or noticed
peruse (verb) to examine with great care (noun form: perusal)
pious (adj.) extremely reverent or devout; showing strong religious
devotion (noun form: piety)
precursor (noun) one that precedes and indicates or announces another
preen (verb) to dress up; to primp; to groom oneself with elaborate care
prodigious (adj.) abundant in size, force, or extent; extraordinary
prolific (adj.) producing large volumes or amounts; productive
putrefy (verb) to rot; to decay and give off a foul odor (adj. form: putrid)
quaff (verb) to drink deeply
quiescence (noun) stillness; motionlessness; quality of being at rest (adj. form: quiescent)
redoubtable (adj.) awe-inspiring; worthy of honor
sanction (noun)/(verb) authoritative permission or approval; a penalty intended to enforce compliance; to give permission or authority
satire (noun) a literary work that ridicules or criticizes a human vice through humor or derision (adj. form: satirical)
squalid (adj.) sordid; wretched and dirty as from neglect (noun form: squalor)
stoic (adj.) indifferent to or unaffected by pleasure or pain; steadfast (noun form: stoicism)
supplant (verb) to take the place of; to supersede
torpid (adj.) lethargic; sluggish; dormant (noun form: torpor)
ubiquitous (adj.) existing everywhere at the same time; constantly encountered; widespread
urbane (adj.) sophisticated; refined; elegant (noun form: urbanity)
vilify (verb) to defame; to characterize harshly
viscous (adj.) thick; sticky (noun form: viscosity)