aberrant (adj.) deviating from the norm (noun form: aberration)
abscond (verb) to depart clandestinely; to steal off and hide
alacrity (noun) eager and enthusiastic willingness
anomaly (noun) deviation from the normal order, form, or rule;
abnormality (adj. form: anomalous)
approbation (noun) an expression of approval or praise
arduous (adj.) strenuous, taxing; requiring significant effort
assuage (verb) to ease or lessen; to appease or pacify
audacious (adj.) daring and fearless; recklessly bold (noun form: audacity)
austere (adj.) without adornment; bare; severely simple; ascetic (noun form: austerity)
axiomatic (adj.) taken as a given; possessing self-evident truth (noun form: axiom)
canonical (adj.) following or in agreement with accepted, traditional standards (noun form: canon)
capricious (adj.) inclined to change one’s mind impulsively; erratic, unpredictable
censure (verb) to criticize severely; to officially rebuke
chicanery (noun) trickery or subterfuge
connoisseur (noun) an informed and astute judge in matters of taste; expert
convoluted (adj.) complex or complicated
disabuse (verb) to undeceive; to set right
discordant (adj.) conflicting; dissonant or harsh in sound
disparate (adj.) fundamentally distinct or dissimilar
effrontery (noun) extreme boldness; presumptuousness
eloquent (adj.) well-spoken, expressive, articulate (noun form: eloquence)
enervate (verb) to weaken; to reduce in vitality
ennui (noun) dissatisfaction and restlessness resulting from boredom or apathy
equivocate (verb) to use ambiguous language with a deceptive intent (adj. form: equivocal)
erudite (adj.) very learned; scholarly (noun form: erudition)
exculpate (verb) to exonerate; to clear of blame
exigent (adj.) urgent, pressing; requiring immediate action or attention
extemporaneous (adj.) improvised; done without preparation
filibuster (noun) intentional obstruction, especially using prolonged
speechmaking to delay legislative action
fulminate (verb) to loudly attack or denounce
ingenuous (adj.) artless; frank and candid; lacking in sophistication
inured (adj.) accustomed to accepting something undesirable
irascible (adj.) easily angered; prone to temperamental outbursts
laud (verb) to praise highly (adj. form: laudatory)
lucid (adj.) clear; easily understood 
magnanimity (noun) the quality of being generously noble in mind
and heart, especially in forgiving (adj. form: magnanimous)
martial (adj.) associated with war and the armed forces
mundane (adj.) of the world; typical of or concerned with the ordinary
nascent (adj.) coming into being; in early developmental stages
nebulous (adj.) vague; cloudy; lacking clearly defined form
neologism (noun) a new word, expression, or usage; the creation or use of new words or senses
noxious (adj.) harmful, injurious
obtuse (adj.) lacking sharpness of intellect; not clear or precise in thought or expression
obviate (verb) to anticipate and make unnecessary
onerous (adj.) troubling; burdensome
paean (noun) a song or hymn of praise and thanksgiving
parody (noun) a humorous imitation intended for ridicule or comic effect, especially in literature and art
perennial (adj.) recurrent through the year or many years; happening repeatedly
perfidy (noun) intentional breach of faith; treachery (adj. form:perfidious)
perfunctory (adj.) cursory; done without care or interest
perspicacious (adj.) acutely perceptive; having keen discernment(noun form: perspicacity)
prattle (verb) to babble meaninglessly; to talk in an empty and idle manner
precipitate (adj.) acting with excessive haste or impulse
precipitate (verb) to cause or happen before anticipated or required
predilection (noun) a disposition in favor of something; preference
prescience (noun) foreknowledge of events; knowing of events prior to their occurring (adj. form: prescient)
prevaricate (verb) to deliberately avoid the truth; to mislead
qualms (noun) misgivings; reservations; causes for hesitancy
recant (verb) to retract, especially a previously held belief
refute (verb) to disprove; to successfully argue against
relegate (verb) to forcibly assign, especially to a lower place or position
reticent (adj.) quiet; reserved; reluctant to express thoughts and feelings
solicitous (adj.) concerned and attentive; eager
sordid (adj.) characterized by filth, grime, or squalor; foul
sporadic (adj.) occurring only occasionally, or in scattered instances
squander (verb) to waste by spending or using irresponsibly
static (adj.) not moving, active, or in motion; at rest
stupefy (verb) to stun, baffle, or amaze
stymie (verb) to block; to thwart
synthesis (noun) the combination of parts to make a whole (verb form: synthesize)
torque (noun) a force that causes rotation
tortuous (adj.) winding, twisting; excessively complicated
truculent (adj.) fierce and cruel; eager to fight
veracity (noun) truthfulness, honesty
virulent (adj.) extremely harmful or poisonous; bitterly hostile or antagonistic
voracious (adj.) having an insatiable appetite for an activity or pursuit; ravenous
waver (verb) to move to and fro; to sway; to be unsettled in opinion